# Stage-raman-data
Raman spectroscopy is a spectrometric technique which makes it possible to characterize the molecular composition and structure of a sample, without the need for preparation experimental on the sample. The indications collected from this technique aims to determine the vibrational signature of a molecule based on these interactions with the molecules that surround it. This method is currently experiencing renewed interest due to its different applications with samples of bacterial populations. From a dataset for learn the signatures, it makes it easy to characterize the different types of bacteria, for according to their resistance to antibiotics. With the aim of calibrating the spectra from this technique and converts it into quantitative data, recent work has focused on linking these data according to the Ramam effect with expression data from analysis of classic transcriptomics. For example, classical multivariate analysis approaches have been carried out to analyze the correlation between Raman profile signatures with those from expression difference analysis focusing on the genes involved in resistance to antibiotics. The benefits of this kind of non-invasive and non-invasive characterization approach destruction of bacterial populations opens up a wide spectrum of applications for identifying characteristics of interest such as antibiotic resistance.

The subject of this internship concerns the comparison of multi-varied methods to analyze and integrate different types of heterogeneous data with the objective of identifying the links between the profiles
of Raman techniques and phenotype such as gene expression. Data from [1,2] will be used to set up this comparison. A first step will consist in applying the different methods of mixomics [MixOmics page](http://mixomics.org/) and the visualization of the results will be also central with dataset visualization approaches multidimensional using t-SNE, parallel coordinate approaches...
References:
- (1) Germond A, Ichimura T, Horinouchi T, Fujita H, Furusawa C, Watanabe TM. Spectral Raman signature reflects transcriptomic features of antibiotic resistance in Escherichia coli. Common Biol.
2018 Jul 2;1:85. doi: 10.1038/s42003-018-0093-8. PMID: 30271966; PMCID: PMC6123714.
- (2) Kobayashi-Kirschvink KJ, Nakaoka H, Oda A, Kamei KF, Nosho K, Fukushima H, Kanesaki Y, Yajima S, Masaki H, Ohta K, Wakamoto Y. Linear Regression Links Transcriptomic Data and Cellular Raman Spectra. Cell Syst. 2018 Jul 25;7(1):104-117.e4. doi: 10.1016/j.cels.2018.05.015.
Epub 2018 Jun 20. PMID: 29936183.
